Scanner 2.8
-----------

Content:

1. Purpose And Usage
2. Cluster size adjustment
3. Initial folder
4. Optimization by Parallel Scanning
5. Language Support
6. System Requirements
7. Installation/Deinstallation
8. Terms of Use
9. Known Bugs And Limitations
10. FAQ
11. Version History


1. Purpose And Usage

The Scanner provides a visualization of your media usage. To show the
relations optimally, all files and folders of the selected disk(s)
are displayed together in one diagram - with an area size proportional
to the used space. Smaller objects are invisible, of course. So the
Scanner is not intended to be a File Manager.

The Scanner uses an extended pie chart with concentric rings. Outer
segments represent deeper directory levels. When you move the cursor
over a particular colored area you will see descriptive information
about it. Right-click on it to open its context menu. It provides
several actions depending on the object type:
  - Show/Hide folder contents
  - Zoom into a folder (also directly available via left-click)
  - Rescan a folder
  - Open a file/folder with the appropriate application
  - Recycle a file/folder (delete it by moving it to Recycle Bin)
  - Remove a file/folder

After the initial scan you get a hard disk summary. To get similar
results for any other drives on your computer, please select the
appropriate button on the left side. Clicking on the selected drive
again causes a rescan action. Determine which drives are part of the
summary by using the "Summary" switch in the drive context menu
(right-click the appropriate button).

Use the "Back" button to change to the previously focused folder,
"Parent Folder" to step up in the folder hirarchy. The "Rescan Folder"
button causes rescanning of the focused folder only.

Additionally, the program provides fast access to two means of space
regain: Software Removal and empty the Recycle Bin. Note: while the
latter function will be recognized automatically, you should let the
display update after you removed software.

You can change the size of the application window with the buttons "+"
and "-". Please note that a big window causes the application to
consume a large amount of memory and might not work correctly on every
system.

If you detect any bugs, please report them to me. Include an exact
description of your drives and the logfile 'Scanner.log', which you can
generate by pressing 'L' from the Scanner.


2. Cluster size adjustment

In order to get precise results, you need to adjust the correct cluster 
size for each hard disk using its context menu. (You can find out the 
cluster size, for example, from the defragmentation.) The default 
cluster size is 4k, which is correct for most drives on Windows XP.

There's also a setting "Auto detect", but it's not absolutely reliable
and needs to scan the whole partition, so that it doesn't work when the 
tool is started with an initial folder (see next section). In this 
case, a cluster size of 4k is assumed.


3. Initial folder

In order to start the tool zoomed to a certain drive or folder, pass the
path of that drive or folder in the command line. This option can also 
be used to incorporate the Scanner into the Windows Explorer context 
menu of drives and folders. You can do that either manually in the 
"Folder Options" or using the file "Add Scanner to Context Menu.reg" 
which is contained in the package. For the latter, do the following 
steps:
1. Open the file "Add Scanner to Context Menu.reg"
2. There are two paths "...\Scanner.exe" contained, change them to the
   actual location of the tool
3. Save the changes and close the file
4. Merge the file to the registry by double click

To remove the context menu entries, merge the file "Delete Scanner from 
Context Menu.reg" to the registry. You don't need to edit this one 
before.


4. Optimization by Parallel Scanning

This paragraph is only of interest to you if your system contains more
than one physical hard disk. The program is capable of scanning all
disks simultaneously, thereby reducing the scan time. Each drive has a
context menu (right-click the appropriate button), where you can adjust
the physical device ID. Drives with different numbers are beeing
scanned simultaneously. Note: Do not adjust partitions on the same
physical disk to different numbers - you'd make the program slower!


5. Language Support

Scanner is capable of detecting the language of your windows system. If
a translation for this language is available, Scanner will automatically
use it. In case you experience problems with your localization, please 
delete the file 'Scanner.lang', so the program will appear in English.

If you'd like to have the program in your native language, but it 
appears in English on your system, you may send a translation of all 
used words and phrases (see following list) to me
(Email to steffen(a)c-evo.org), I'll include it. Send the words as 
attached textfile, not inside the mail text! Please have a look in 
which context the words appear before translating them.

  Scanning...
  Bytes
  Files
  Total
  Used on
  Free on
  Summary
  Recycle Bin
  Virtual Memory
  Application Wizard
  Empty Recycle Bin
  Parent Folder
  Back
  Rescan Folder
  Version
  Zoom
  Rescan
  Open
  Recycle
  Remove
  Physical Device ID
  Cluster Size
  Auto Detect
  Show
  Hide


6. System Requirements

Windows 95/98/NT/ME/2000/XP/Vista
High Color display (or better)


7. Installation/Deinstallation

After you have unpacked the ZIP-Archive, the Scanner is ready for use.
If you want to incorporate the program into the Start Menu, it has to be
done manually. To uninstall, simply delete all Scanner.* files. The
program does not change the Windows system directory.


8. Terms of Use

This software is Freeware. Usage is not time-limited and does not
require registration. Everyone is permitted to distribute the package in
any way without my explicit agreement, provided the copyright remark and 
the web links are not being removed.

Copyright (C)2006 by Steffen Gerlach

Visit my freeware page for the latest version:
http://www.steffengerlach.de/freeware/ 

Complaints, comments or proposals may be sent using this web form:
http://www.steffengerlach.de/contact/


9. Known Bugs And Limitations

- The number of accessable drives depends on how many buttons fit to
  the chosen window size.
- You can't zoom into folders that are too small to be visible from the
  parent folder.
- The network drive support doesn't work with each system. I can't fix
  this bug at the moment, because I don't have the equipment.
- The program has not been tested with compressed or protected folders
  under Windows NT/2000 and will probably not work correctly with them.
- If the recycle bin folder name doesn't start with 'RECYCL', it will not
  be recognized by the program; means it will be displayed as a normal
  folder, doesn't count as free space and is not automatically being
  rescanned if necessary.
- Windows 95A and NT do not provide the API function required for
  cleaning the Recycle Bin. The appropriate button does not appear.
- The displayed values for used space are a very little (usually much
  less than 1/1000) smaller than they really are. Since the numbers are
  being rounded anyway, this shouldn't be relevant.
- Unformatted drives and drives with file systems which are not 
  accessable for Windows can't be scanned, even if a button for them 
  appears.


10. FAQ

Question: Does the program have a problem with calculating folder sizes? 
E.g. for my cookies folder, which contains several thousands of very 
small files, it displays a size of some hundred MB, but the files make 
not even one MB in total.

Answer: The Scanner shows used space, not cumulated file sizes. Those 
values may be very different, particularly in the case of small files 
combined with a large cluster size, because each file consumes a whole 
cluster in minimum. The cluster size depends on the file system and can 
be up to 32 KB.

Question: After launch, the program immediately starts scanning all hard
disks. I dont like that, because this process takes rather long on my 
system and I'm only interested in some selective information. What can I 
do?

Answer: Just do what you want to, don't let the scanning process stop 
you. The scanning will automatically be abandoned if you order something
else.

Question: Why is the window resizing of the Scanner that awkward and not 
smooth as usual in Windows applications?

Answer: The process of painting and smoothing the special pie chart 
takes too much time for a fast, continuous resizing.

Question: I got more than 13 drives and I'd like to access all of them.

Answer: Enlarge the Scanner window with the "+" button.

Question: One/some of my hard disks appear as hard disk symbols in the 
drive list to the left, but are not shown in the summary chart. A bug?

Answer: Probably it was yourself who (accidently) removed these drives 
from the summary. See section 1.

Question: Which language did you use to create this program?

Answer: Delphi 4.


11. Version History:

2.8 (03/23/06)
  - fixed crash after rescan

2.7 (03/17/06)
  - initial path as command line parameter possible
  - folders that only link to content in other folders/on other drives are not scanned
  - thousand separator is no longer used for sizes because it could easily be confused with the decimal separator

2.6 (04/13/02)
  - show/hide option

2.5 (09/01/01)
  - parallel scanning errors of version 2.3 fixed
  - variable window size
  - less strict recycle bin recognition
  - application responds during scanning

2.3 (06/06/00)
  - serious bug (with files >=2GByte) fixed

2.2 (05/09/00)
  - uncommon display problems in high color mode fixed
  - support for languages with different character set

2.1 (01/17/00)
  - chart object context menu
  - experimental network support

2.0 (07/25/99)
  - folder zoom
  - drive selectable, all drive types supported
  - automatic k/M/GBytes display
  - optional parallel scanning of drives
  - no more limitation on the total folder number

1.6 (07/05/99)
  - display preparation speeded up

1.5 (05/30/99)
  - multi-lingual

1.4 (05/04/99)
  - serious bug (on partitions >=4GByte) fixed

1.3 (05/02/99)
  - serious bug (with more than one large partition) fixed
  - Scanner can generate logfiles now

1.2 (04/17/99)
  - button graphics changed
  - anti-aliasing can be turned off now

1.1 (04/14/99)
  - serious bug (when 16384+ files) fixed

1.0 (03/14/99)
